EXPLORING PASSWORD
AUTHENTICATED KEY
EXCHANGE(PAKE) ALGORITHMS

A project report submitted to The University of Manchester
for the degree of Bachelors of Science
in the Faculty of Science and Engineering

2023

Sam Leonard
f41751sl
Supervisor: Professor Bernardo Magri

Department of Computer Science

Declaration
No portion of the work referred to in this project report has been submitted in support of
an application for another degree or qualification of this or any other university or other
institute of learning.

Copyright
i. The author of this project report (including any appendices and/or schedules to this
thesis) owns certain copyright or related rights in it (the “Copyright”) and s/he has
given The University of Manchester certain rights to use such Copyright, including
for administrative purposes.
ii. Copies of this thesis, either in full or in extracts and whether in hard or electronic
copy, may be made only in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents
Act 1988 (as amended) and regulations issued under it or, where appropriate, in
accordance with licensing agreements which the University has from time to time.
This page must form part of any such copies made.
iii. The ownership of certain Copyright, patents, designs, trade marks and other intellectual property (the “Intellectual Property”) and any reproductions of copyright
works in the thesis, for example graphs and tables (“Reproductions”), which may
be described in this thesis, may not be owned by the author and may be owned by
third parties. Such Intellectual Property and Reproductions cannot and must not
be made available for use without the prior written permission of the owner(s) of
the relevant Intellectual Property and/or Reproductions.
iv. Further information on the conditions under which disclosure, publication and commercialisation of this thesis, the Copyright and any Intellectual Property and/or
Reproductions described in it may take place is available in the University IP Policy (see http://documents.manchester.ac.uk/DocuInfo.aspx?DocID=24420), in
any relevant Thesis restriction declarations deposited in the University Library,
The University Library’s regulations (see http://www.library.manchester.ac.
uk/about/regulations/) and in The University’s policy on presentation of Theses

Abstract
Exploring Password Authenticated Key Exchange(PAKE) Algorithms
Sam Leonard, Supervisor: Professor Bernardo Magri
The aim of the project is to explore various Password Authenticated Key Exchange
(PAKE)

Acknowledgements
I would like to thank everyone at absolutely onderful supervisor, RustCrypto, Crypto
Hack and my CTF Team (0rganizers). Without your help none of this would have been
possible.

Contents
1 Introduction

7

6

Chapter 1
Introduction

7

Glossary
PAKE Password Authenticated Key Exchange 4

8

